We have this part of our edit where we have two shots that I filmed that are very similar and we want
to do some kind of cool transition between the two.
So I'm going to kind of explain this in an easy way that we can do inside of premie or maybe a few different
ways to do it inside of premiere.
And then we'll explain a more complex way to do it inside of after effects.
So let's first start with creating some space for this transition.
So I'm going to move up our adjustment layer and we want to start with overlaying these two shots.
So I'm going to go ahead and drag out some time of both shots.
Bring the intro of the shot longer and bring the outro of The Shot below it longer as well.
Now, I want to overlay these two shots as symmetric.
No, not symmetrically, but as closely as possible before trying to create our transition.
So what that's going to entail is basically right now we have this shot.
So right now, we have these two shots, these two shots.
And you can see this part of the image.
One shot is a little bit earlier than the following shot.
So I'm going to go ahead and select the top shot and I'm gonna start shooting this over until it's as
closely synched up to the shot below it as possible.
OK.
So you can you can see the ghosting of how these shots are overlaid, it looks pretty similar.
It really does.
So let's go ahead and see what this looks like with just a overall crossfade.
And I'm going to go ahead and take our adjustment layer, because right now you can see this pop of
color change right there is happening because we have two different adjustment layers that were affecting
two different clips separately.
But now we're blending these clips together.
That's not going to work.
So I'm going to take this adjustment layer copyists filter paste it onto our bottom track, delete the
adjustment layer that we don't need anymore.
Take the adjustment layer that was affecting this clip.
Now it's affecting both.
And I'm going to copy its color filter, paste it onto our clip, delete that.
And now we don't have that pop of exposure that's messing up our transition.
OK, so that's not even like terrible.
This is like kind of a cool thing that if most people see that, they'd be like, whoa, how do you
do that?
Right.
So that's the basic of basic ways.
OK.
Now, there's a few of the things that we can do with masking that we can do in premiere without having
to export things to after effects.
And actually we can even do a luma key as well.
We're going to be able to fine tune that a little bit more in after effects.
But I want to show you the process in in premiere, because we're going to be able to I'm going to minimize
our color correction.
Here's our Luma key filter.
Now, what this is going to do is it's going to basically use different exposures to slowly fade in
our image.
So you can see it's bringing in the dark parts of the frame and it's using Luma, meaning light blue,
using those different parts of the frame, different light intensities to bring in the image that way
versus a fade where you bring in the whole image at once.
Right, so let's go ahead and take off our crossfade and let's go to our Lumo filter.
Let's go to the beginning of our clip.
Let's turn it all the way up.
So that means it's not being affected yet.
And we're going to hit the stopwatch and we're going to go to about where we want to finish our transition.
We're going to go to zero and let's hit play.
OK, so you can see it kind of has a more view kind of thing.
One of the problems with this filter is that it doesn't really start to take effect with this specific
image because so much of the image is already dark.
It doesn't start to take effect until really late in the process.
You can see it's only starting to really engage when it gets to around 10 percent.
So let's go ahead and set the actual starting point, not at 100 percent, but rather let's try it at
20 percent.
Let's delete our old keyframe and drag that over.
So that gives us a much more gradual fade.
But the problem is with Premier, it doesn't allow for you to feather this transition so we can, you
know, try to fix that a little bit by doing a crossfade.
Let's see that.
OK, so this kind of a cool little, you know, unique effect that's going on, emceeing a pretty big
difference in this where the house is located in the frame.
Let's see if we can.
So what we can do for that is to take our bottom image.
Scale it up to, let's say, one 10.
And let's go ahead.
And now we have space to move it over.
OK, cool.
You see what we just did there?
We really made this part of the transition really aligned perfectly, because this is where the eye
is going to be.
The eye is going to be looking at the bright part of the frame.
It's going to be looking towards the center of the frame.
And that's where the effect kind of looks the best in this transition.
But, you know, I'm not super happy with the way the Luma key thing works in after four Arendelle excuse
me, in premiere.
So let's remove that and let's try a different kind of effect.